When we covered Kafka Topics,
we learned that topics may consist of one or more partitions.
We also learned that these partitions are unit of parallelism for Kafka consumers.
When you create a Kafka consumer,
you must specify a group ID parameter.
This parameter tells Kafka what consumer group the consumer belongs to.
Consumer groups are collections of Kafka consumers
that are working together to consume data from the same topic.
These consumers may exist within the same running application or more likely,
there are multiple instances of the same application
that all belong to the same consumer group.
Kafka uses the consumer group ID to assign
partitions to specific consumers within the consumer group.
That way, each consumer is responsible for consuming a portion of the data.
This spreads the load amongst
multiple consumers and can dramatically increase your throughput.
It's important to note here that only one consumer
in the consumer group receives the message from the broker.
Well, this works fine for many use cases.
If your application needs all the data from a topic,
you should make sure to use single-process consumer groups.
So in this example, consumer A has been assigned to partition A and partition C,
and consumer B has been assigned to partition B.
What this means is that consumer B will only ever see messages from partition B and
consumer A will be the only consumer that sees
the messages from partition A and partition C. Remember,
for the consumers in a consumer group,
only one of the consumers will see the message from particular partition.
When consumer processes join or leave a consumer group,
the Kafka group coordinator broker starts a process known as rebalancing.
In this example, consumer A is going to lead the consumer group.
When this happens, the rebalance occurs.
A rebalance is a process in which a Kafka broker works with
a consumer group leader to reassign
partitions for a topic to the other consumers in the group.
So in this case, partition A and partition C will need to
be reassigned because consumer A is leaving their consumer group.
Rebalancing is an expensive process and it
brings your consumption to a halt across all consumers.
Notice that all of our assignments are gone.
That's because we're undergoing a rebalance and all of our consumption stopped.
Well, as should try hard to avoid unnecessary rebalances,
you should embrace scaling up and down
your consumer groups as necessary to achieve high throughput.
After the rebalance has completed,
all of our partitions will be assigned to a particular consumer.